Matt's Python edits and moves for IA restructure (#2206)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/build/python-models.md

We're excited to keep developing our opinionated recommendations and next steps for product development, and we want your help. Comment in the GitHub discussions; leave thoughts in Slack; bring up dbt + Python in casual conversation with colleagues and friends.
</VersionBlock>

## Overview

dbt Python ("dbt-py") models will help you solve use cases that can't be solved with SQL. You can perform analyses using tools available in the open-source Python ecosystem, including state-of-the-art packages for data science and statistics. Before, you would have needed separate infrastructure and orchestration to run Python transformations in production. Python transformations defined in dbt are models in your project with all the same capabilities around testing, documentation, and lineage.

<VersionBlock firstVersion="1.0" lastVersion="1.2">

Python models are supported in dbt Core 1.3 and higher.  Learn more about [upgrading your version in dbt Cloud](https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/dbt-cloud/cloud-configuring-dbt-cloud/cloud-upgrading-dbt-versions) and [upgrading dbt Core versions](https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/core-versions#upgrading-to-new-patch-versions).

> To read more about Python models, change the [docs version to 1.3](/docs/building-a-dbt-project/building-models/python-models?version=1.3) (or higher) in the menu bar.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To read more about Python models, change the [docs version to 1.3](/docs/build/python-models?version=1.3) (or higher) in the menu bar.
```

---
title: "Python models"
id: "python-models"
---
- [Overview](#overview)
- [Configuring Python Models](#configuring-python-models)
- [Python Specific Functionality](#configuring-python-models)
- [Limitations](#limitations)
- [Supported data platforms](#supported-data-platforms)

:::info

dbt Core v1.3 adds support for Python models. Note that only [specific data platforms](#specific-data-platforms) support dbt-py models.

> We encourage you to:

Reviewer: Can we move this out of the note? It's a huge and hard-to-read this way. 

I also suggests versioning this paragraph for 1.3 so it's less confusing:
> In the following article, you'll see a section titled "❓ dbt questions." We are excited to release the first set of functionality in v1.3, which will solve real use cases. We also know this is the first step toward a much wider field of possibility. We don't pretend to have all the answers.

Author: YES!  Thank you for that feedback.  I wasn't a fan.

We're excited to keep developing our opinionated recommendations and next steps for product development, and we want your help. Comment in the GitHub discussions; leave thoughts in Slack; bring up dbt + Python in casual conversation with colleagues and friends.
:::

## Overview

dbt Python ("dbt-py") models will help you solve use cases that can't be solved with SQL. You can perform analyses using tools available in the open-source Python ecosystem, including state-of-the-art packages for data science and statistics. Before, you would have needed separate infrastructure and orchestration to run Python transformations in production. Python transformations defined in dbt are models in your project with all the same capabilities around testing, documentation, and lineage.

<VersionBlock firstVersion="1.0" lastVersion="1.2">

Python models are supported in dbt Core 1.3 and higher.  Learn more about [upgrading your version in dbt Cloud](https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/dbt-cloud/cloud-configuring-dbt-cloud/cloud-upgrading-dbt-versions) and [upgrading dbt Core versions](https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/core-versions#upgrading-to-new-patch-versions).

> To read more about Python models, change the docs version to 1.3 (or higher) in the menu bar.

Reviewer: This sentence feels like it needs a link to the 1.3 version. Hopefully this works in markdown:
```suggestion
To read more about Python models, change the [docs version to 1.3](/docs/building-a-dbt-project/building-models/python-models?version=1.3) (or higher) in the menu bar.
```
